# GRADE PROCESSING & EVALUATION

Many of the tools (especially the noise scripts) can be used for different projects and different scopes.

This repository contains all the files necessary to process the data generated by our GRADE and published [here]().

Find more information about the GRADE by looking at the [paper]()

# CX-TODO add links below

## (Pre)Processing - Add Noise, Reorder ...
The first step you need to do is the pre-processing of the experiment data.
You can find all the necessary information [here](preprocessing/PREPROCESSING.md).
This will guide you on adding noise to the data, limit the depth, and much more.
___
## Evaluation
Then you can run evaluation scripts. You can find all the information [here](evaluation/EVAL.md).
Those are the settings used in the evaluations that you can find in the paper.
___
## Semantic mapping
The semantic information output by ISAAC differs from the NYUv2-40 mapping.
Therefore, we made a script (which is appliable to bboxes, instance, semantic info) to get the correct mappings.
___
## Identify bad frames
Possible occlusions, subjects that are too nearby the camera, camera that look only toward outside the environment and many others.
If you want to check these things, there is a snippet that might help you out [here]()
___
## Additional scripts
- IMU visualization to check eventual spikes and smoothness of the IMU data, as well as the added noise 
  # *CX TODO check* [here]()
  For this script you need to specify `[data,imu,imu_noisy]_dir` in lines 6:8 of the python code.
  
- Timestamp verification script that will output plots and stats to check whether the original bags have sorted stamps as expected. Note that this is an error of  `isaac_sim` itself. You can find the script [here]()
  
___
## Citation
Please, if you find this work useful, cite us:
```

```
